%=============================================================================
% Chapter: Introduction
%=============================================================================

\chapter{Introduction}
\label{Introduction}

This is the developer manual for \parflow{}.  Currently this manual is
very much a work-in-progress since many sections of this manual are
very out of date.  Work has started on updating the sections but the task is far from
completed.

\parflow{} is intended to be used as a tool for modeling environmental
transport processes.  A number of aspects of this problem are active
areas of research: numerical algorithms in a parallel environment,
geostatistical methods for characterizing porous media, and the
fundamental physics of multiphase transport in heterogeneous porous
media are some of the major research topics that will be addressed in
constructing \parflow{}.  In order to allow developers to easily
reconfigure the \parflow{} simulator to test new methods for
approaching this complex problem, the software system has been
designed in a modular fashion that allows alternative methods for
accomplishing various tasks to be inserted into the system.  The user
has the freedom to choose from among the various options to configure
the simulator and problem setup at run-time in order to easily compare
alternatives.  As additional capability is developed for the
\parflow{} simulator, it must conform to the design standards that
have been chosen to allow seamless integration into the existing
system.  This manual is intended to describe the \parflow{} software
in sufficient detail to allow members of the \parflow{} development
team to gain a comprehensive understanding of the \parflow{} system
and some of the issues that have led to the design decisions that have
been made.


